Welcome to the sixth video of my masterclass.
And this video is about how to create a compelling LinkedIn profile.
Now, from the previous video, we learned that it's important to have a global resume.
And when you find a job description that matches your profile, then you build off of your global resume
by removing whatever is not relevant to this job description and saving that as a, let's say, a resume
that's specific to that job description.
So you want to give it a name as such, so it's easy for you to go back and refer to that.
Now, that said, using your global resume, we're going to build your LinkedIn profile and we're going
to ensure that the two of them are consistent.
And before doing that, it would also be immensely helpful to you to look at as many job descriptions
as you can in your field, no matter what the field.
When you look at ten, 20, 30, maybe more job descriptions and you start decoding the same way we
did in one of the previous videos, then you will see a lot of keywords beginning to repeat themselves.
Whether they're hard skills related to your technical expertise or whether they're soft skills related
to your communication and your qualities, your aptitude, it doesn't matter.
A lot of times they begin to repeat themselves.
Then when you've seen so many job descriptions and when you've compiled a list of keywords, then it
becomes easy for you to identify all of them and you can use those keywords in your LinkedIn profile.
I'm going to share my screen just like I did for the previous videos, and I'm going to see how we can
build the LinkedIn profile.
Now, this will be my own profile that I'm going to show you.
Now, what you saw in the headline of my resume is what you see here.
This is what sets me apart.
This is what makes me different from other coaches, other engineers, other professionals that are
trying to apply for a job now open to work.
Now this you will see on your profile.
You can always disable this by saying.
Delete from profile or.
You're not open to work when you click open to work.
Then you start appearing in search results for for hiring managers or recruiting managers that are looking
to fill a certain position.
LinkedIn also provides you with certain analytics.
How many people viewed your profile in the last day?
How many people viewed your profile in the last week or whatever?
How many people interact with your post and how many search appearances you've appeared in?
Now.
When you click when I click the about section, then you will see that this contains the exact same
text as what you saw in the global resume.
So this would appear in the headline.
Or in my case, this part.
And then.
The summary appears in the about me section of my resume.
And then the experience would be identical.
All I've done is copied and pasted things from my professional experience onto my LinkedIn profile here.
And then all my licenses and certifications.
Where did I get my professional engineering license?
Where did I get my Six Sigma Black Belt?
Things like that.
My community involvement section goes in the volunteering section here.
Now as far as skills go, remember that list of skills that we've curated from several different job
opportunities, job postings?
All of those skills will go here.
LinkedIn allows you to include up to 50 skills, so feel free to be as elaborate as possible and feel
free to be as broad as required.
So you appear in multiple searches.
Now, when a staffing company or when a hiring manager searches for candidates and trust me, they do,
then they don't search for candidates names.
Obviously not.
They would search for keywords.
They would search for skills.
And if you want your resume to appear at the top, then you want not just the skills to be there, but
you want to endorse them.
So a couple of recommendations would be to get people to endorse you for your skills and to get recommendations
from people, because these reflect positively on your resume and on you as a person.
So when a recruiting manager looks at this and they they see all these recommendations, then it increases
their confidence and makes you more likely to be hired or to even be called for an interview.
And then you can talk about different courses or the different languages that you speak and feel free
to add a few companies as or.
Societies, organizations in your interests so that when someone looks at them, then then they know
what your interests are and how they relate to the company or that job description or department or
whatever the case may be.
You also get a good chance to network with professionals who share similar interests.
I would also recommend posting or making yourself visible by sharing posts or by commenting on the posts
of influencers, or some people that or companies that you might have an active interest in because
that also has the chance of improving your visibility.
Now, thank you and I look forward to the next video.
I hope this has been valuable for you so far.